From buying milk to organizing data, programming is a very vast field to get into. There are endless things that you can do with programming.
Every electronic device, ranging from cameras, smartphones, smartwatches, and your TV to vending machines, elevators, and printers have all
had to be programmed in order for them to work. Programming in Java for FTC can be a very challenging thing, especially for those that have
never coded a line in their life. I am here to break everything down for you, and start you off from the absolute basics, all the way to
very complicated stuff!

Hello! Welcome to my Java tutorials! I'm Zach, and I am the writer of all these lessons. Below I shall show you how to use them.

Most lessons are just text files that you can read.
Tutorials that contain "In Code" in the title are interactive lessons. You need to have the code pulled up on your computer, AND
downloaded to your Robot Controller phone. (If you don't know what the Robot Controller phone is, don't worry. I shall explain before the
first interactive lesson.) Run the code AFTER you read through it all on your computer!

These turoials will go into the basics of logic and the Java lanugage. The main purpose of these is to help you understand enough to
get you started from no knowledge whatsoever, to coding your robot fully. The later tutorials will help you take your skills
to the next level.

If you would like to see my background and why you can trust what I am saying, please continue reading. If not, skip to the next lesson.

Let me start by introducing myself. I'm Zach, the Lead Coder and Captain of Renegade 154. I've been on the team since freshman year.
I am now a senior, (class of 2020,) and have been coding since fifth grade. My library/computer teacher, Mrs. Lebrun, introduced
us to Scratch, however had no idea how to use it, just like the rest of us. I went home that day and started learning by experimentation.
I came back the next day with the simplest program ever. There was a picture of a chicken in the middle, and every key that you pressed
made it say another question. All you did was type in the answer, and that was it. It didn't respond, ask anything else, or anything.
However, this was a start. I will never forget how happy my teacher was for making that tiny little thing. From there, I started advancing
my projects. I first made a Flappy Bird clone in sixth grade, as that was the craze. After that, I made various tiny things before making
a battle tanks game in seventh grade. Then finally, I started working on a top down shooter more recently. Once I joined the robotics team,
I shifted from Scratch to Java with the help of our Lead Coder at the time, Dorian. Once I learned the syntax, I took off quickly, and have
done a lot with it since. I have decided to make these tutorials to help out all teams who have an eager young coder like myself that is
hungry for knowledge, and self improvement.
